index.md, before:

---
layout: splash
title: "Database DevOps AutoPilot"
header:
  overlay_color: "#000"
  overlay_filter: "0.5"
  actions:
    - label: "Start Training"
      url: "/training/flyway-autopilot/"
      btn_class: "btn--primary btn--large"
excerpt: "Master enterprise-grade database DevOps with Flyway AutoPilot - automated migration detection, generation, and deployment using Azure SQL Database."
feature_row:
  - title: "Environment Setup"
    excerpt: "Configure Flyway AutoPilot with Azure SQL Database and establish your development environment."
    url: "/training/flyway-autopilot/labs/lab1-environment-setup/"
    btn_label: "Lab 1: Setup"
    btn_class: "btn--primary"
  - title: "Schema Change Capture"
    excerpt: "Learn AutoPilot's intelligent schema change detection and automated migration script generation."
    url: "/training/flyway-autopilot/labs/lab4-schema-change-capture/"
    btn_label: "Lab 4: AutoPilot"
    btn_class: "btn--primary"
  - title: "CI/CD Deployment"
    excerpt: "Implement complete GitHub Actions pipelines for automated database deployments across environments."
    url: "/training/flyway-autopilot/labs/lab6-cicd-deployment/"
    btn_label: "Lab 6: CI/CD"
    btn_class: "btn--primary"
---

{% include feature_row %}

## About This Training

Transform your database deployment process with Flyway AutoPilot - the intelligent database DevOps solution that automatically detects schema changes and generates migration scripts. This hands-on training uses a realistic e-commerce platform to teach enterprise-grade database DevOps practices.

### What You'll Learn

- **AutoPilot Schema Detection**: Automatically capture database changes without manual scripting
- **Azure SQL Database Integration**: Work with enterprise cloud database environments
- **Migration Script Generation**: Generate production-ready migration scripts automatically
- **GitHub Actions CI/CD**: Implement complete automated deployment pipelines
- **E-commerce Platform Evolution**: Learn through realistic business scenarios

### Training Structure

**Duration**: 4-6 hours (6 progressive labs, 30-60 minutes each)  
**Format**: Hands-on exercises with real e-commerce database scenarios  
**Platform**: Azure SQL Database with Flyway AutoPilot  
**Outcome**: Complete automated database DevOps pipeline

### Complete Training Path

1. **[Lab 1: Environment Setup](training/flyway-autopilot/labs/lab1-environment-setup/)** - Azure SQL Database and AutoPilot configuration
2. **[Lab 2: Repository Configuration](training/flyway-autopilot/labs/lab2-repository-configuration/)** - Flyway project setup and Git integration
3. **[Lab 3: Database Provisioning](training/flyway-autopilot/labs/lab3-database-provisioning/)** - E-commerce platform baseline deployment
4. **[Lab 4: Schema Change Capture](training/flyway-autopilot/labs/lab4-schema-change-capture/)** - AutoPilot change detection and comparison
5. **[Lab 5: Migration Script Generation](training/flyway-autopilot/labs/lab5-migration-script-generation/)** - Automated migration script creation
6. **[Lab 6: CI/CD Deployment](training/flyway-autopilot/labs/lab6-cicd-deployment/)** - GitHub Actions pipeline implementation

## Quick Start

1. **Check Prerequisites**: Review [system requirements](docs/prerequisites/)
2. **Start Training**: Begin with [Lab 1: Environment Setup](training/flyway-autopilot/labs/lab1-environment-setup/)
3. **Get Support**: Access [workshop overview](docs/workshop-overview/) for detailed guidance

---

## About LetsMakeStuffGo

This training is provided by [LetsMakeStuffGo](https://www.makestuffgo.com) - specialists in Cloud and DevOps Engineering. We help organizations implement world-class DevOps practices that deliver measurable business value.

**Assess Your DevOps Maturity**: Take our [FREE DevOps & FinOps Assessment](https://assessment.makestuffgo.com) to benchmark your organization against industry standards.

Commit message:

Add Labs 3 to 6 for Flyway AutoPilot Training
- Created Lab 3: Database Provisioning, covering SQL Server database setup and Flyway Desktop connection.
- Created Lab 4: Schema Change Capture, detailing how to capture and manage schema changes in Flyway AutoPilot.
- Created Lab 5: Migration Script Generation, explaining the process of generating versioned migration scripts from schema model changes.
- Updated Lab 6: CI/CD Deployment, refining the title and description for clarity on GitHub Actions implementation for automated deployments.

index.md, after:

---
layout: splash
title: "Database DevOps AutoPilot"
header:
  overlay_color: "#000"
  overlay_filter: "0.5"
  actions:
    - label: "Start Training"
      url: "/training/flyway-autopilot/"
      btn_class: "btn--primary btn--large"
excerpt: "Master enterprise-grade database DevOps with Flyway AutoPilot - automated migration detection, generation, and deployment using Azure SQL Database."
feature_row:
  - title: "Environment Setup"
    excerpt: "Configure Flyway AutoPilot with Azure SQL Database and establish your development environment."
    url: "/training/flyway-autopilot/labs/lab1-environment-setup/"
    btn_label: "Lab 1: Setup"
    btn_class: "btn--primary"
  - title: "Schema Change Capture"
    excerpt: "Learn AutoPilot's intelligent schema change detection and automated migration script generation."
    url: "/training/flyway-autopilot/labs/lab4-schema-capture/"
    btn_label: "Lab 4: AutoPilot"
    btn_class: "btn--primary"
  - title: "CI/CD Deployment"
    excerpt: "Implement complete GitHub Actions pipelines for automated database deployments across environments."
    url: "/training/flyway-autopilot/labs/lab6-cicd-deployment/"
    btn_label: "Lab 6: CI/CD"
    btn_class: "btn--primary"
---

{% include feature_row %}

## About This Training

This workshop is a comprehensive exploration of database DevOps automation using Flyway AutoPilot, where you will learn practical techniques for managing database schema changes, version control, and automated deployments. Our exploration begins with foundational CI/CD capabilities for database migrations, ensuring your database changes are versioned, tested, and deployed consistently across all environments.

You'll master enterprise-grade database DevOps practices using Flyway's powerful AutoPilot technology, applicable to Azure SQL Database and other major database platforms. We conclude with advanced topics including rollback strategies, environment-specific deployments, and integrating database changes with your application delivery pipeline.

### What You'll Learn

- **AutoPilot Schema Detection**: Automatically capture database changes without manual scripting
- **Azure SQL Database Integration**: Work with enterprise cloud database environments
- **Migration Script Generation**: Generate production-ready migration scripts automatically
- **GitHub Actions CI/CD**: Implement complete automated deployment pipelines
- **E-commerce Platform Evolution**: Learn through realistic business scenarios

### Training Structure

**Format**: Hands-on exercises with real e-commerce database scenarios  
**Platform**: Azure SQL Database with Flyway AutoPilot  
**Outcome**: Complete automated database DevOps pipeline

### Complete Training Path

1. **[Lab 1: Environment Setup](training/flyway-autopilot/labs/lab1-environment-setup/)** - Azure SQL Database and AutoPilot configuration
2. **[Lab 2: Repository Configuration](training/flyway-autopilot/labs/lab2-repository-configuration/)** - Flyway project setup and Git integration
3. **[Lab 3: Database Provisioning](training/flyway-autopilot/labs/lab3-database-provisioning/)** - E-commerce platform baseline deployment
4. **[Lab 4: Schema Change Capture](training/flyway-autopilot/labs/lab4-schema-capture/)** - AutoPilot change detection and comparison
5. **[Lab 5: Migration Script Generation](training/flyway-autopilot/labs/lab5-migration-script-generation/)** - Automated migration script creation
6. **[Lab 6: CI/CD Deployment](training/flyway-autopilot/labs/lab6-cicd-deployment/)** - GitHub Actions pipeline implementation

## Quick Start

1. **Check Prerequisites**: Review [system requirements](docs/prerequisites/)
2. **Start Training**: Begin with [Lab 1: Environment Setup](training/flyway-autopilot/labs/lab1-environment-setup/)
3. **Get Support**: Access [workshop overview](docs/workshop-overview/) for detailed guidance

---

## About the Author

### Hamish Watson

Hamish Watson is a Microsoft Data Platform MVP with a passion for efficient database & application deployments using DevOps methodologies.

He has formed his own company – **Morph iT Limited** – based in Christchurch, New Zealand and provides consultancy services for many clients in the US, Canada, UK, Australia and NZ.

He also has created a small startup called **MakeStuffGo** - this company is dedicated to bringing AI services to both Cloud and DevOps Engineering practices.

**Want to see how your company stacks up against DevOps, FinOps and Cloud industry standards?**

Take the [FREE DevOps & FinOps Assessment](https://assessment.makestuffgo.com)

He has 25+ years IT experience in managing and deploying large scale applications using various technologies. He has been managing SQL Server since SQL Server 2000 and pragmatic approaches to delivering business value is his career passion.

Educating and helping others learn is a driver for Hamish and he is a User Group Leader, International speaker and a repeat guest lecturer at universities.

---

**Assess Your DevOps Maturity**: Take our [FREE DevOps & FinOps Assessment](https://assessment.makestuffgo.com) to benchmark your organization against industry standards.
